How to file complaints against banks and NBFCs on RBI website?
Visit to the givien link their are detail steps to follo in order to launch complaint
https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/wealth/save/how-to-file-complaints-against-banks-and-nbfcs-on-rbi-website/articleshow/69941524.cms?from=mdr

What is IFSC code?
IFSC is short for Indian Financial System Code and represents the 11 digit character that you can usually see on your bank’s cheque leaves, or other bank sponsored material. This 11 character code helps identify the individual bank branches that participate in the various online money transfer options like NEFT and RTGS.

How do you file a complaint for poor service of a bank?
One can file a complaint file complaint against the Bank on RBI Website.Below site show the detail step to follow:
https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/wealth/save/how-to-file-complaints-against-banks-and-nbfcs-on-rbi-website/articleshow/69941524.cms?from=mdr

What is Saving account?
A savings account is a basic type of bank account that allows you to deposit money, keep it safe, and withdraw funds, all while earning interest.

Who needs a saving account?
A savings account is a basic type of bank account that allows you to deposit money, keep it safe, and withdraw funds, all while earning interest. Savings accounts offered by most banks, credit unions, and other financial institutions are FDIC insured and typically pay interest on your deposits.

Who needs a saving account?
A savings account is a basic type of bank account that allows you to deposit money, keep it safe, and withdraw funds, all while earning interest. Savings accounts offered by most banks, credit unions, and other financial institutions are FDIC insured and typically pay interest on your deposits.

What is Current account?
The current account includes deposits, withdrawals, and contra transactions. Such accounts are also called the Demand Deposit Account. A Current account can be opened in most of the commercial banks. A current account being a zero-account, is generally associated with huge transactions on a regular basis.

Who needs a current account?
Current accounts is ideal for carrying out day-to-day business transactions. The main objective of this account is to enable the account holder to run his business smoothly as there is no limit on number of transactions or cash withdrawal. Click to know the difference between savings account and current account.

Which bank is best for pension account?
SBI	Senior Citizens Savings Scheme
ICICI	Life Plus Senior Citizens Account
Axis Bank		Pension Savings Account
Bank of Baroda		Baroda Pensioners Savings Bank Account
IDBI Bank		Pension Saving Account
HDFC Bank		Pension Accounts
PNB	        	PNB Pension Savings Account
Bank of India		SB Account for Pensioners
Kotak Mahindra Bank	Grand Savings Account

What is zero account Balance?
A zero-balance account refers to a savings bank account, which has a zero balance in it and yet not charged.

Whether a Joint Account can be continued for family pension after death of a pensioner?
Yes, the banks should not insist on opening of a new account in case of Central Government pensioner if the spouse in whose favour an authorization for family pension exists in the Pension Payment Order (PPO) is the survivor. The family pension should be credited to the existing account without opening a new account by the family pensioner for this purpose.

When is the pension credited to the pensioner's account by the paying branch?
The pension paying banks credit the pension amount in the accounts of the pensioners based on the instructions given by the Pension Paying Authorities.

Who is responsible for deduction of Income Tax at source from pension payment?
The pension paying bank is responsible for deduction of Income Tax from pension amount in accordance with the rates prescribed by the Income Tax authorities from time to time.

Can a pensioner withdraw pension from his/ her account when he/she is not able to sign or put thumb/toe impression or unable to be present in the bank?
Yes, instructions have been issued by RBI to pension disbursing banks to allow withdrawal of pension by following certain procedures which are given below :

How the payment of Dearness Relief at revised rate is to be paid to the pensioners?
The pension paying agency banks have to revise the Dearness Relief based on the copies of government orders supplied by government to them through post, fax, e-mails or by accessing the information from the website of the concerned governments, and authorize their pension paying branches to make payments to the pensioners immediately.

Can i deposit money in my pension account?
The amount can be credited into the account in the form of cheque or online transfer without any hassles. the amount can be remitted in cash into the account subject to the remitter furnishing his PAN number in the remittance challan since the amount is more than Rs. 50000.

How can I transfer my pension bank account?
The first is the easiest as banks have a designated link bank that processes pensions. Application: To change the paying bank in the same location or to ask for payment to be made at a bank in a different location, the pensioner has to send a written application, attested by the old bank's manager, to the new one

Can pension account be transferred to another bank?
(a) Pensioner can transfer his/ her pension account from one Branch to another Branch of the same Bank within the same centre or at a different centre; (b) He/She can also transfer his/ her account from one authorized Bank to another authorized Bank at different centre.

What is a pension nominee?
A nominee is a beneficiary who has been nominated by the client on a death benefit nomination. A successor is a beneficiary who has been nominated by a dependant or nominee. Since the introduction of the pension freedoms rules in April 2015, death benefits are free from tax if the client dies before age 75.

Nominee of pensioner to receive arrears of pension?
Any pensioner to whom any pension is payable by the Government out of the Consolidated Fund of India may nominate any other person (hereinafter referred to as the nominee) in accordance with provisions of Rule 5 who shall receive, after the death of the pensioner all moneys payable to the pensioner on account of such pension on, before or after the date of such nomination and which remain unpaid immediately before the death of pensioner.

How do I check my pension status?
Please got to the website given below, which will show detail steps to know.
http://www.epfguide.com/know-your-pension-status/

